# Software-Design-Document
Software design document developed for an web-hosted gaming application. 

The Gaming Room is the latest client for Creative Technology Solutions (CTS) in their quest to expand their platform. The Gaming Room started their application¸ Draw It or Lose It, on the Android platform and have outsourced development to CTS in order to expand to other operating platforms. This expansion includes platform selection and design of an application which will reach the broadest audience. This platform should include a server to host the web-based game which operates securely and isn’t bottlenecked by the platform choice of the clients. Thus, a software design document was developed in order to capture all of the needs of The Gaming Room as well as analyze the potential choices. One area of highlight from creating this design document is the section on evaluation. During the evaluation phase, I spent a significant amount of time on analyzing all of the requirements to utilize each operating platform (Windows, Linux, MacOS and mobile) as a web server. I utilized more than 20 sources to accurately document what’s software is available on each platform, associated fees and programming requirements. 

Not only did was a software design document created but there were also programming requirements along the way. As the design document developed, it was a fantastic reference to go back to while programming. A lot of the code which we were provided contained sections to “fill in” and select the appropriate way to handle a requirement. The design document kept the process on track since it was very clear what exactly was required for the given section. This wasn’t always the case however since there was a section which needed improvement – my summary of the provided UML diagram. This UML diagram contained all of the classes and functions which the software required however my initial analysis of it was lackluster. An improved analysis of this would have been useful while coding as well as improving the evaluation portion since the requirements would have been better understood. 
Next, what the users need are something which needed to be considered. While the evaluation portion was well done – the question is how did the requirements come to light? These requirements came from a combination of the provided UML diagram from the senior developer, coding assignments and documentation from the client. As the project progressed, it was important to take these needs into consideration since a project without a clear direction is a waste of time. Being aware of the requirements, which are bound to change, also helps reduce the technical debt of work which is no longer relevant. Personally, I avoid this by working iteratively and testing frequently. Writing a few lines of code and then testing for functionality is key to efficiently developing software. Rather than writing 100 lines and testing at the end, which results in 50 error messages, errors can be mitigated by sizing the coding into each functional chunk. This worked well in this course since it was the first time, I utilized Maven but iterative programming allowed me to diagnose a small number of bugs at once. This is especially useful when the platform isn’t well understood. 

This class was a fantastic representation of what’s to come as I make my way into the industry. There was a lot to learn and digest about each operating platform however its incredibly useful information moving forward. 
